docs/loom-docs/source/guide/bcp/option4/index.rst, before:

.. _overview_multi_data_center_high-availability:
.. index::
   single: Hot-Hot : Custom Replication
=================================
Hot-Hot : With Custom Replication
=================================
.. _custom-replication:
.. figure:: /_images/ha_custom.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Custom Replication Architecture Diagram
    :figclass: align-center

Overview
========
Synchronous Database cluster may turn out to be not optimal for large Loom installations due to the amount of data that needs to be replicated across datacenters. In such a case we have to consider an alternative solution where we use local Databases in each data center with a custom data replication service. This will allow for all data centers to share the data, while reducing the need to replicate all the data in the Database.

Since we will not be sharing a Database across data centers now, we'll need to treat the data a little bit differently than before. 
The data will be divided into shards based on the cluster ID partitioning. Each shard will be exclusively assigned to an owner Database in a data center. Only Loom Servers running locally will be able to write to such a shard. Any requests to update the clusters in non-local shard will be routed to the Loom Server running in the data center owning the shard. This update strategy prevents write conflicts since any updates to a cluster can be done only in a single Database.

The custom replication reduces replication overhead in two ways. First, it only replicates data upon completion of operations. Second, it replicates minimal state information needed to restart any operations in progress during data center failure. Intermediate state change data will not be replicated.

Each shard is synchronously replicated locally to handle intra-datacenter failover, and also remotely to at least one other data center.

Since we currently do not replicate each state change across data centers, users of a data center will have a delayed view of remote cluster state. The replication implementation should try to make this delay as minimal as possible.

Failover
========
When a data center fails, the remote data centers having the shards of the failed data center will become the new owners of the shards.
All calls to these shards will need to be routed to the new owner data centers.
User traffic from the failed data center will be re-routed to other data centers automatically by the load balancer.

Pros
====
#. Reads/writes to local shards (majority of operations) are optimal.
#. Data consistency is maintained on updates due to all updates for a cluster getting routed to a single Database.
#. Improves scalability due to selective replication of data.
#. Minimal data loss on data center failure.

Cons
====
#. Complex to implement.
#. Writes to non-local shards will be slow.
#. All transactions in progress in a data center when it goes down will be lost.

Commit message:

Rewriting Pros/Cons of HA approaches, and other minor changes

docs/loom-docs/source/guide/bcp/option4/index.rst, after:

.. _overview_multi_data_center_high-availability:
.. index::
   single: Hot-Hot : Custom Replication
=================================
Hot-Hot : With Custom Replication
=================================
.. _custom-replication:
.. figure:: /_images/ha_custom.png
    :align: center
    :alt: Custom Replication Architecture Diagram
    :figclass: align-center

Overview
========
Synchronous Database cluster may turn out to be not optimal for large Loom installations due to the amount of data that needs to be replicated across datacenters. 
In such a case we have to consider an alternative solution where we use local Databases in each data center with a custom data replication service. 
This will allow for all data centers to share the data, while reducing the need to replicate all the data in the Database.

Since we will not be sharing a Database across data centers now, we'll need to treat the data a little bit differently than before. 
The data will be divided into shards based on the cluster ID partitioning. Each shard will be exclusively assigned to an owner Database in a data center. 
Only Loom Servers running locally will be able to write to such a shard. Any requests to update the clusters in non-local shard will be routed to the Loom Server running in the data center owning the shard. 
This update strategy prevents write conflicts since any updates to a cluster can be done only in a single Database.

The custom replication reduces replication overhead in two ways. First, it only replicates data upon completion of operations. 
Second, it replicates minimal state information needed to restart any operations in progress during data center failure. Intermediate state change data will not be replicated.

Each shard is synchronously replicated locally to handle intra-datacenter failover, and also remotely to at least one other data center.
Reads/writes to local shard, which probably will be majority of operations done in a datacenter, will be optimal. 
But writes to non-local shard will be slow as it has to be routed to another datacenter.

Since we currently do not replicate each state change across data centers, users of a data center will have a delayed view of remote cluster state. 
The replication implementation should try to make this delay as minimal as possible.

Failover
========
When a data center fails, the remote data centers having the shards of the failed data center will become the new owners of the shards.
All calls to these shards will need to be routed to the new owner datacenters.

Also since we replicate state information required to restart any operations, any in-progress jobs during datacenter failure
can be restarted by the new owner datacenter.
However, any transaction that was in progress when the datacenter failed will be lost as it was not committed. 

User traffic from the failed data center will be re-routed to other data centers automatically by the load balancer.
